*   Describe Singleton Design pattern with Details And Code Sample :
The Singleton design pattern in C# ensures that a class has only one instance and provides a global point of access to that instance. It is used when only one instance of a class is needed throughout the program. The following is an example of the Singleton pattern in C#:

```csharp
public class Singleton
{
    private static Singleton instance;

    private Singleton() { }

    public static Singleton Instance
    {
        get
        {
            if (instance == null)
            {
                instance = new Singleton();
            }
            return instance;
        }
    }

    public void SomeMethod()
    {
        Console.WriteLine("SomeMethod of the 		  	Singleton instance");
    }
}
```

In this example, the `Singleton` class ensures that only one instance is created and provides a global access point to that instance through the `Instance` property. The constructor is made private to prevent instantiation of the class from outside. The `Instance` property is used to access the single instance of the class.

This pattern is useful when exactly one object is needed to coordinate actions across the system, such as a shared resource. However, it should be used with caution as it can introduce global state and make code less testable.
-----------------------------------------------
* how does the singleton design pattern ensure that a class has only one instance?

The Singleton design pattern ensures that a class has only one instance by providing a global point of access to that instance. 
This is achieved by the following key features of the pattern:
1. Private Constructor: The class's constructor is made private, preventing external code from creating instances of the class.
2. Static Instance: The class contains a static member that holds the single instance of the class.
3. Global Access Point: The pattern provides a public static method or property that allows other classes to access the single instance.
By combining these features, the Singleton pattern restricts the instantiation of a class to one object, and it provides a way to access that instance globally, ensuring that only one instance of the class exists throughout the application.

-----------------------------------------------------
*  what we are not just building a static class?

Creating a static class in C# is different from implementing the Singleton design pattern. A static class cannot be instantiated and can only contain static members, including methods, properties, and fields. However, a static class does not allow for inheritance or flexibility to change the behavior, which is a limitation when compared to the Singleton pattern. On the other hand, the Singleton pattern allows for a single instance of a class with global access and provides more flexibility, such as lazy initialization and the ability to be extended by subclassing if needed.

While a static class is suitable for containing general utility methods or constants, the Singleton pattern is used when exactly one instance of a class is needed and provides a way to access that instance globally. Therefore, the Singleton pattern is more appropriate for scenarios where a single, extensible instance of a class is required, as opposed to simply grouping related members in a class with restricted behavior, as in the case of a static class.
-----------------------------------------------------------
* what does it mean: "The Singleton design pattern in C# ensures that a class has only one instance ".
Does it mean that in the whole application, we can make one and only one instance from that class?

Yes, the statement "The Singleton design pattern in C# ensures that a class has only one instance" means that in the whole application, only one instance of the class can be created. The purpose of the Singleton pattern is to ensure that a class has only one instance and provide a global point of access to it throughout the life of the application. This is useful in scenarios where multiple instances of a class are undesirable or where a single point of access is needed, such as in logging systems, database connection managers, caches, and thread pools.
----------------------------------------------------------------------

WHERE WE MUST USE "SINGLETON PATTERN" IN C#? 

The Singleton Design Pattern in C# is used when you need to ensure that only one instance of a class is created and accessed throughout the application. Here are some sample situations where the Singleton pattern can be applied:

1. Database Connection: When you need to establish a single connection to a database and share it across the application, ensuring that only one connection is created and used at a time.

2. Logger: In a logging system, you may want to ensure that there is only one instance of the logger class, which can be accessed and used by all parts of the application.

3. Printer Pool: If your application manages a pool of printers, you may want to ensure that there is only one instance of the printer pool class, which handles the allocation and management of the printers.

4. Configuration Settings: When your application needs to access configuration settings, you may want to ensure that there is only one instance of the configuration class, which manages the loading and access to the configuration data.

5. Thread-Safe Resource Management: If you have a limited resource that needs to be managed by multiple threads, you may use the Singleton pattern to ensure that the resource is accessed and used safely by all threads.

6. Singleton as a Service: In a microservices architecture, you may have a service that needs to be accessed by multiple clients, and you want to ensure that only one instance of the service is running at a time.

7. File System Access: When your application needs to access a file system, you may want to ensure that there is only one instance of the file system access class, which handles the file operations safely and efficiently.

These are just a few examples of situations where the Singleton Design Pattern can be applied in C#. The key is to identify scenarios where you need to ensure that only one instance of a class is created and accessed throughout the application.
